Criterion 1: Receipt of lesser nationally or internationally recognized prizes or awards for excellence in the field of endeavor.[20]
First, USCIS determines if the person was the recipient of prizes or awards. Nothing precludes the person from relying on a team award, provided the person is one of the recipients of the award.[21] The description of this type of evidence in the regulation indicates that the focus should be on the person's receipt of the awards or prizes, as opposed to the employer's receipt of the awards or prizes.

Second, USCIS determines whether the award is a lesser nationally or internationally recognized prize or award which the person received for excellence in the field of endeavor. As indicated by the plain language of the regulation, this criterion does not require an award or prize to have the same level of recognition and prestige associated with the Nobel Prize or another award that would qualify as a one-time achievement.

Examples of qualifying awards may include, but are not limited to:

Certain awards from well-known national institutions or well-known professional associations;
Certain doctoral dissertation awards; and
Certain awards recognizing presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.
Considerations:

Relevant considerations regarding whether the basis for granting the prizes or awards was excellence in the field include, but are not limited to:

The criteria used to grant the awards or prizes;
The national or international significance of the awards or prizes in the field;
The number of awardees or prize recipients; and
Limitations on competitors.
While many scholastic awards do not have the requisite level of recognition, there may be some that are nationally or internationally recognized as awards for excellence such that they may satisfy the requirements of this criterion.

For example, an award available only to persons within a single locality, employer, or school may have little national or international recognition, while an award open to members of a well-known national institution (including an R1 or R2 doctoral university[22]) or professional organization may be nationally recognized.

Similarly, national or international recognition is most often associated with awards given to individuals at the highest level in a given field. However, there is no specific requirement that an award be open to all members of the field, including the most experienced, in order to meet the requirements of this criterion. While limitations on competitors can be a relevant factor, in some instances the evidence may establish that an award or prize is nationally or internationally recognized despite being limited to youth, amateur competitors, or early-career professionals. For instance, awards presented to new players or “rookies” in major sports leagues may garner national or even international media coverage.

Criterion 2: Membership in associations in the field for which classification is sought that require outstanding achievement of their members, as judged by recognized national or international experts in their disciplines or fields.[23]
USCIS determines if the association for which the person claims present or past membership[24] requires that members have outstanding achievements in the field as judged by recognized experts in that field.

Examples of associations in the field requiring outstanding achievement of their members may include, but are not limited to:

A membership in certain professional associations; and
A fellowship with certain organizations or institutions.
Considerations:

The petitioner must show that membership in the association requires outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought, as judged by recognized national or international experts.

Associations may have multiple levels of membership. The level of membership afforded to the person must show that in order to obtain that level of membership, recognized national or international experts judged the person as having attained outstanding achievements in the field for which classification is sought.

As a possible example, general membership in an international organization for engineering and technology professionals may not meet the requirements of the criterion. However, if that same organization at the fellow level requires, in part, that a nominee have accomplishments that have, for example, contributed importantly to the advancement or application of engineering, science, and technology, and that a council of experts and a committee of current fellows judges the nominations for fellows, that higher, fellow level may be qualifying.

Another possible qualifying example may include membership as a fellow in a scientific society dedicated to artificial intelligence if the membership is based on recognition of a nominee’s significant, sustained contributions to the field of artificial intelligence, and a panel of current fellows makes the selection of new fellows.

Relevant factors that may lead to a conclusion that the person's membership in the association(s) was not based on outstanding achievements in the field include, but are not limited to, instances where the person's membership was based solely on the following factors (by themselves or in the aggregate):

A level of education or years of experience in a particular field;
The payment of a fee or by subscribing to an association's publications; and
A requirement, compulsory or otherwise, for employment in certain occupations, as commonly seen with union membership or guild affiliation for actors.
 

Criterion 3: Published material about the person in professional or major trade publications or other major media relating to the person's work in the field for which classification is sought. Such evidence must include the title, date, and author of the material, and any necessary translation.[25]
First, USCIS determines whether the published material was related to the person and the person's specific work in the field for which classification is sought.

Examples of qualifying media may include, but are not limited to:

Professional or major print publications (newspaper articles, popular and academic journal articles, books, textbooks, or similar publications) regarding the person and the person’s work;
Professional or major online publications regarding the person and the person’s work; and
Transcripts of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and the person’s work.
Considerations:

The published material should be about the person, relating to the person’s work in the field, and not just about the person’s employer and the employer’s work or about another organization and that organization’s work. Marketing materials created for the purpose of selling the person's products or promoting the person’s services are not generally considered to be published material about the person (this includes seemingly objective content about the person in major print publications that the person or the person’s employer paid for).

However, the person and the person’s work need not be the only subject of the material; published material that covers a broader topic but includes a substantial discussion of the person’s work in the field and mentions the person in connection to the work may be considered material about the person relating to the person’s work.

Moreover, officers may consider material that focuses solely or primarily on work or research being undertaken by a team of which the person is a member, provided that the material mentions the person in connection with the work or other evidence in the record documents the person’s significant role in the work or research.

Evidence may include documentation such as print or online newspaper or magazine articles, popular or academic journal articles, books, textbooks, similar publications, or a transcript of professional or major audio or video coverage of the person and the person’s work.

Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media publication.

In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional and major trade publications) and the relative circulation, readership, or viewership (for major trade publications and other major media).

 

Criterion 4: The person's participation, either individually or on a panel, as a judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification for which classification is sought.[26]
USCIS determines whether the person has acted as the judge of the work of others in the same or an allied field of specification.

Examples of judging the work of others may include, but are not limited to:

Peer reviewing for a scholarly journal, as evidenced by a request from the journal to the person to do the review, accompanied by proof that the review was actually completed;
Peer review of abstracts or papers submitted for presentation at scholarly conferences in the respective field;
Serving as a member of a Ph.D. dissertation committee that makes the final judgment as to whether a candidate’s body of work satisfies the requirements for a doctoral degree, as evidenced by departmental records; and
Peer reviewer for government research funding programs.
Considerations:

The petitioner must show that the person has not only been invited to judge the work of others, but also that the person actually participated in the judging of the work of others in the same or allied field of specialization. For example, a petitioner might document the person’s peer review work by submitting a copy of a request from a journal to the person to do the review, accompanied by evidence confirming that the person actually completed the review.

 

Criterion 5: The person's original scientific, scholarly, artistic, athletic, or business-related contributions of major significance in the field.[27]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has made original contributions in the field.

Second, USCIS determines whether the original contributions are of major significance to the field.

Examples of relevant evidence include, but are not limited to:

Published materials about the significance of the person’s original work;
Testimonials, letters, and affidavits about the person’s original work;
Documentation that the person’s original work was cited at a level indicative of major significance in the field; and
Patents or licenses deriving from the person’s work or evidence of commercial use of the person’s work.
Considerations:

Analysis under this criterion focuses on whether the person’s original work constitutes major, significant contributions to the field.

Evidence that the person’s work was funded, patented, or published, while potentially demonstrating the work’s originality, will not necessarily establish, on its own, that the work is of major significance to the field.

For example, published research that has provoked widespread commentary on its importance from others working in the field, and documentation that it has been highly cited relative to others’ work in that field, may be probative of the significance of the person’s contributions to the field of endeavor.

Similarly, evidence that the person developed a patented technology that has attracted significant attention or commercialization may establish the significance of the person’s original contribution to the field. If a patent remains pending, USCIS generally requires additional supporting evidence to document the originality of the person’s contribution, such as detailed reference letters.

Detailed letters from experts in the field explaining the nature and significance of the person’s contribution may also provide valuable context for evaluating the claimed original contributions of major significance, particularly when the record includes documentation corroborating the claimed significance.

Submitted letters should specifically describe the person’s contribution and its significance to the field and should also set forth the basis of the writer’s knowledge and expertise.

 

Criterion 6: The person's authorship of scholarly articles in the field, in professional or major trade publications or other major media.[28]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has authored scholarly articles in the field.

As defined in the academic arena, a scholarly article reports on original research, experimentation, or philosophical discourse. It is written by a researcher or expert in the field who is often affiliated with a college, university, or research institution. Scholarly articles are also generally peer reviewed by other experts in the field of specialization. In general, it should have footnotes, endnotes, or a bibliography, and may include graphs, charts, videos, or pictures as illustrations of the concepts expressed in the article.

Examples of scholarly article authorship include, but are not limited to:

Publications in professionally-relevant peer-reviewed journals; and
Published conference presentations at nationally or internationally recognized conferences.[29]
For other fields, a scholarly article should be written for learned persons in that field. ("Learned" is defined as "having profound knowledge gained by study").[30] Learned persons include all persons having profound knowledge of a field.

Second, USCIS determines whether the publication qualifies as a professional publication, major trade publication, or major media publication.

In evaluating whether a submitted publication is a professional publication or major media, relevant factors include the intended audience (for professional journals) and the circulation or readership relative to other media in the field (for major media).

 

Criterion 7: Display of the person's work in the field at artistic exhibitions or showcases.[31]
First, USCIS determines whether the work that was displayed is the person's work product.

The description of this type of evidence in the regulation provides that the work must be the person's work product.

Second, USCIS determines whether the venues (virtual or otherwise) where the person's work was displayed were artistic exhibitions or showcases. Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines “exhibition” as a public showing (as of works of art, objects of manufacture, or athletic skill).[32]

While the dictionary definition includes public showings other than those that are artistic in nature, the plain language of the criterion includes the modifier “artistic” and explicitly requires that the exhibitions or showcases be artistic in nature. USCIS only considers non-artistic exhibitions or showcases as part of a properly supported claim of comparable evidence, discussed in more detail below.

 

Criterion 8: The person has performed in a leading or critical role for organizations or establishments that have a distinguished reputation.[33]
First, USCIS determines whether the person has performed in a leading or critical role for an organization, establishment, or a division or department of an organization or establishment.

Examples of lead or critical roles may include, but are not limited to:

Senior faculty or senior research position for a distinguished academic department or program;
Senior research position for a distinguished non-academic institution or company;
Principal or named investigator for a department, institution, or business that received a merit-based government award, such as an academic research or Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grant;[34]
Member of a key committee within a distinguished organization;
Founder or co-founder of, or contributor of intellectual property to, a startup business that has a distinguished reputation; and
Leading or critical role for a distinguished organization or a distinguished division of an institution or company, as explained in detail by the director or a principal investigator of the relevant organization or division.
Considerations:

In evaluating such evidence, officers examine whether the role is (or was) leading or critical.

For a leading role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person is (or was) a leader within the organization or establishment or a division or department thereof. A title, with appropriate matching duties, can help to establish that a role is (or was), in fact, leading.

For a critical role, officers look at whether the evidence establishes that the person has contributed in a way that is of significant importance to the outcome of the organization or establishment's activities or those of a division or department of the organization or establishment.

A supporting role may be considered critical if the person's performance in the role is (or was) important. It is not the title of the person's role, but rather the person's performance in the role that determines whether the role is (or was) critical.

This is one criterion where letters from persons with personal knowledge of the significance of the person's leading or critical role can be particularly helpful to officers in making this determination, so long as the letters contain detailed and probative information that specifically addresses how the person's role for the organization, establishment, division, or department was leading or critical. Evidence of experience must consist of letters from employers.[35]

Second, USCIS determines whether the organization or establishment, or the department or division for which the person holds or held a leading or critical role, has a distinguished reputation.

The relative size or longevity of an organization or establishment is not in and of itself a determining factor but is considered together with other information to determine whether a distinguished reputation exists. Other relevant factors for evaluating the reputation of an organization or establishment can include the scale of its customer base or relevant media coverage.

For academic departments, programs, and institutions, officers may also consider relevant and credible national rankings and receipt of government research grants as positive factors.

For a startup business, officers may consider evidence that the business has received significant funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders commensurate with funding rounds generally achieved for that startup’s stage and industry, as a positive factor regarding its distinguished reputation.

Merriam-Webster's online dictionary defines “distinguished” as “marked by eminence, distinction, or excellence” or “befitting an eminent person.”[36]

 

Criterion 9: The person has commanded a high salary, or other significantly high remuneration for services, in relation to others in the field.[37]
USCIS determines whether the person's salary or remuneration is high relative to the compensation paid to others working in the field. USCIS does not interpret the phrase “has commanded” to mean that the person must have already earned such salary or remuneration in order to meet the criterion. Rather, a credible contract or job offer showing prospective salary or remuneration may establish that the person has been able to command such compensation.

Evidence relevant to demonstrating high remuneration may include, but is not limited to:

Tax returns, pay statements, or other evidence of past salary or remuneration for services;
Contract, job offer letter, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services; and
Comparative wage or remuneration data for the person’s field, such as geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys.
Considerations:

Evidence regarding whether the person's compensation is high relative to that of others working in the field may take many forms. Examples may include, but are not limited to, geographical or position-appropriate compensation surveys and organizational justifications to pay above the compensation data. The following websites, among others, may be helpful in evaluating the relative compensation for a given field:

The Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) Overview of BLS Wage Data by Area and Occupation webpage; and
The Department of Labor's Career One Stop website.
When evaluating whether a comparison between the beneficiary’s documented remuneration and the remuneration in the survey is accurate, the following considerations, among others, may be relevant:

The description of the occupation. Broad descriptions that include multiple occupations or multiple industries may not provide an accurate comparison to others in the field. For example, “directors and producers” might be listed as a single category across industries, but evidence that a film director receives high remuneration based on a broad range of occupational data that include disparate occupations such as film director and radio show producer, may not be sufficiently probative;
The validity of the survey. Some websites provide user-reported salary data, which may not be a valid comparison if, for example, too few users reported their salaries or the data is otherwise not credible or reliable;
Location and currency. Officers evaluate persons working outside of the United States based on the wage statistics or comparable evidence relevant to the applicable work location, rather than by simply converting the salary to U.S. dollars and then viewing whether that salary would be considered high in the United States; and
Salary rate being measured. Officers consider whether the comparison data measures an hourly rate or an annual salary. Another consideration is how that information compares to the beneficiary’s pay. Many artists are not paid an hourly rate but instead are paid a daily rate (which may not be equivalent to 8 hours) or are paid a certain amount for a project (involving an unknown number of hours). However, hourly wage data may still be probative if the petitioner submits documentation regarding the number of hours worked. Such documentation can include, but is not limited to, pay statements, personnel records, or testimonial evidence from the relevant employer.
For entrepreneurs or founders of startup businesses, officers consider evidence that the business has received significant funding from government entities, venture capital funds, angel investors, or other such funders in evaluating the credibility of submitted contracts, job offer letters, or other evidence of prospective salary or remuneration for services.

 

Criterion 10: Commercial successes in the performing arts, as shown by box office receipts or record, cassette, compact disk, or video sales.[38]
USCIS determines whether the person has enjoyed commercial successes in the performing arts.

This criterion focuses on volume of sales and box office receipts as a measure of the person's commercial success in the performing arts. Therefore, the mere fact that a person has recorded and released musical compilations or performed in theatrical, motion picture, or television productions would be insufficient, in and of itself, to meet this criterion. The evidence must show that the volume of sales and box office receipts reflect the person's commercial success relative to others involved in similar pursuits in the performing arts.

